{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf350
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww25100\viewh13760\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Maria was a runner before I met and married her. I was not a fan of running - at all really, but I liked to move around. \
\
She had been a high-school track star, but fell off from there\'85 She started running again when we were together. She actually got me to enjoy running with her ! And so I ran. A lot. We entered races together . She started out way faster than me, and that changed\'85 But let me start at the beginning..
\b\fs28 \
\
2003 
\b0\fs24 We met, we flirted..\

\b\fs28 \
2004 
\b0\fs24 We dated, got engaged..\

\b\fs28 \
2005 
\b0\fs24 We got married.. \

\b\fs28 \
2006 
\b0\fs24 I started running with her. We developed a 5k practice route along Ravenswood, and ran together and apart, pretty often. I signed up for a 5k but wimped out when it was cold and rainy. She ran it, and did quite respectably.\

\b\fs28 \
2007 
\b0\fs24 I finished my first race with her. In this one, that I was determined not to wimp out on, I used her to mark my pace, and I was able to power ahead in the last quarter mile to finish a few seconds ahead of her. It was a victory - of sorts - but not one I felt was very braggable. I didn't want to run harder than I *had* to, and waiting until the end of the race to pour it on, while 'drafting' the whole time before -seemed to be the most efficient way. That was probably how I rationalized it at the time..\
\

\b\fs28 2008
\b0\fs24  Damned be the time:  22:22..\
\
22:22 was the time that my online training calculator told me I was capable of running. I was psyched, because if I hit 22:22, I'd be the one in the lead now. On race day, I planned to start in the proper pace group corral - between the 7:00 and 7:30 markers. She disagreed, and convinced me to hang back between the 8:00 and 8:30 areas.. I had my doubts, not just for speed, but who wanted all those people around you, so closely packed ? The gun went off.. \
\
We began to zig and zag through the pack. When I got into the clear, I couldn't see her, but I knew she had to be close, coming for me, in front of me if I wasn't careful. I started to think I could actually do way better than 22:22. The 3rd mile, I just ran harder - I felt like a 22-flat might have been possible. Soon I could see the finish line and felt strong ! As I pumped up to 110% effort, the clock rolled up 22:05\'85 22:10\'85  22:19\'85 22:20\'85 22:21\'85\'85\'85\'85 and I cross exactly where my training said I would, even with the 'extra' sprint. 22:22. I'll be damned. \
\
Now, I slow down and look around\'85 Where's Maria ? Oh god\'85 20 paces from the finish, I see her. She does not look well. She's in the first aid tent with an aluminum blanket. She's cold, sweaty - she obviously had to abort the race. I ask her why, almost unable to restrain my emotion. 20 paces from where I last saw her, she says, she stepped in a sinkhole - it couldn't be seen inside the dense pack of people. She stepped in and fell over - severely sprained her ankle - it looked horrible. They had to carry her to the finish line. I kept running - I got my best time, and I didn't even sense that my baby had been hurt. I'd left my baby behind in a really bad way. We were to do a backpacking vacation in Europe in only a month, how would she get around ? I helped her get home, and she recovered in time to travel. But we fought the whole trip. It was the beginning of lonelier times.\
\

\b\fs28 2009
\b0\fs24  I didn't race for a great time in either of the next two years. I was happy just to finish a race together.  In that year, a death in the family disrupted any normal schedule of training, and our life. She raced on with just pure energy, partly fueled by frustration with our decaying situation. I trained more than she, but she's a fighter. She blew me away by over 45 seconds that year.\
\

\b\fs28 2010
\b0\fs24  I was determined to mix up my training. I had discovered POSE running, I was not very fast yet, but I felt better on my feet, and was working less hard than before. Results were on the way. This race, I felt like my reinvention was on track. But I turned my head as I crossed the finish line, to look for Maria, but she'd snuck up beside me, and damn if her chip and mine did not cross that finish line in exactly the same second ! I was happy - I didn't beat 22:22, but we finished together, I atoned for last year, and perhaps for 2008. I calculated that she was now at the 6th percentile of her age group. Maria was fast when she wanted to be.\
\

\b\fs28 2011
\b0\fs24  The final run\
\
The last run we did - was May 1 2011. It had been on our calendar since the previous December. It was the race we *always* ran together, but by this time, we were already separated. On this morning, I didn't make contact with her at all - before, during, or after the race. We didn't line up in the same corral, and i was trying hard not to pay attention to anybody.  I was racing more and more under my own horsepower, and my achievements were my own, and hers were her own. \
\
We both did great that race, but there was no drama - no rivalry. I didn't congratulate her, she didn't congratulate me. I'd moved from the 22nd percentile of this race up to the 8th. Among other shattered things, was my 22:22 former record. She moved up from the 6th to the 5th percentile of her age group. Ours were two very different accomplishments, but separate.  I didn't feel the slightest twinge of bitterness, nor envy - no need to put her down, nor praise her. Just a far away, vague sense of having forgotten something that I once lived, loved, and breathed. And I have been running on ever since .. \
\
\
\
}